So in this video, we're going to take a look at a simple Java program that plays a guess the number game, where the program, when you run it, chooses a number between one and a thousand, and then you have to guess what that number is. And once you do guess the number, you can choose whether to play again or terminate the application. Now, once we get into the running program, the actual interactions with the program are identical, whether I'm doing this on macOS, which is what I currently have on the screen, or in Microsoft Windows. So in terms of just getting to the point of running the program, I'll show you the commands in both macOS and Windows for the benefit of folks on both sides. And then I'll show you the full running of the program here in my terminal window. Now, the first step is that we have to change into the folder that contains the program. And if you recall from the before you begin, you need to have the examples in a folder called examples within your user accounts documents folder, or you have to update the commands that I'm about to show you to indicate where you actually placed our examples on your system. So the first thing I'm going to do is use the CD command, which is for changing directories. Directories are another name for folders. And the simplest way to get into your documents folder on macOS is to use a tilde and a forward slash. That is a shorthand for your user account. And then the name of the documents folder. And you can start typing documents and then hit tab and it'll auto complete the name if it can. If there's multiple things with a given name, it'll complete to the point that it is that's unique. And then within the documents folder, we have the examples folder. And I'm going to stop there for a moment so that I can just list with the LS command the contents of that folder. And if you recall from the before you begin, there's a separate sub folder for every chapter and lesson in our books and videos. So we're going to be using the chapter one folder in this video. So I'll CD to the CH01 folder in this case, and then I'll list out the contents once again. And this is the actual source code file for the program that we'll be running in just a few moments, the guess the number game. Now .java is the file name extension that you use when you create files containing Java program code. And sometimes you'll have one of those in a given program. Sometimes you'll have many of them. And when you compile such a file, you get what's known as a .class file that contains the Java byte codes that are run by the Java virtual machine or what some people just refer to as the Java runtime. Java byte codes are basically Java machine language. And the machine is the Java virtual machine or the Java runtime, which is a software layer that sits between your Java program and the underlying hardware that it's running on. The reason that Java is sometimes referred to as a write once run anywhere language is that we translate our Java codes into byte codes. Those byte codes can run on any Java virtual machine. And it's the Java virtual machine's responsibility to turn that into something that the underlying computer understands. So we'll come back to here in just a moment to compile and run this program. But before I do that, I want to switch over to Microsoft Windows and get into the same CH01 folder. So I'm going to command tab over to my Windows virtual machine. I'm in a Windows PowerShell window at the moment. And just as a reminder, you can open that by just typing the word terminal down in the search window and clicking the terminal option that pops up. So here's terminal and it'll actually open a Windows PowerShell window. So just like we did on the Mac OS side, we can use the CD command to change folders. The main difference here in Microsoft Windows is that we use backslashes to separate directory structures. So just like on Mac OS, I can use the tilde character to represent my user account. And then I can do a backslash and my documents folder, I can start typing that and hit tab. And notice that it auto completes the whole thing right up through the documents folder. And remember, we have an example subfolder and I'll hit enter there just to show you that when I use the DIR command on Windows, I can get a directory listing of all the folder names over on that operating system. And there's the CH1 folder once again. If you want, you can clear out all the stuff that you see on the screen by just typing the clear command. I'm just going to do that to make the screen a little bit more readable. So I'll do a CD to CH01 next and hit enter. And then I will again use the command for listing out the contents on Windows, which is DIR. And we can see the same guess the number game dot Java source code file over here. So we'll come back here to compile that file in just a moment. Let's switch back over to the terminal on my Mac OS side. The next step that we want to perform is to compile the program. So I'm going to type the Java C command and I'm going to follow that with the file name. And since I'm a terrible typist, I'm just going to copy paste that file name here. And that's the file that we would like to compile. So when I hit enter now, assuming it's able to translate my Java program into Java byte codes, I will simply get back my next command prompt. But if there were a problem inside the program, like a syntax error, it would then report those error messages to me here at the compile at the command line. So after doing that, if I list out the contents here on the Mac OS terminal window, you can see that we now have a dot class file and a dot Java file. And within that dot class file are the Java byte codes that represent the compiled version of my program. And we can do the exact same thing over on the Windows side. So just using the Java C command over here, and I'll start to type the name of the file. And for some reason, the terminal window puts in a dot slash in front of it. We don't need that. So I'll take it out. But once I hit enter here, it will once again compile the program. And if I do a directory listing, you can see that we now have the dot class file and the dot Java file as well. So we've now successfully compiled the program on both platforms here. And of course, you're probably only working on one of the two platforms, but I'm showing it for the benefit of both Mac OS and Windows users as well. So let's go back over to Mac OS. And now we're going to launch the application. To do that, we're going to use the Java command, followed by just the base name of the dot class file without the dot class extension. So you provide the name of the file that contains what's known as the main method. And we'll see that in our very first program in chapter two in the next lesson. But when I launch the Java virtual machine or the Java runtime with the Java command, I do have to tell it the class that starts the program executing, which is the only class in this example. It's called guess the number game. So when I hit enter, I am prompted to guess a number between one and a thousand. And we'll come back and actually do the execution of the program in just a moment. I just want to show you that I get the exact same thing over on Windows. So switching back to my Windows and I'm just going to type clear here so that this shows up towards the top of the screen. We have the Java command followed by the name of the class, but I used auto completion. So it put the full dot class file name in. I'm going to get rid of the extras there. So it just says Java followed by the name of the class without the dot class extension. And when I hit enter, I get the exact same prompt. Now, from this point forward, interacting with either one is exactly the same. The program chooses the same random number whether you're running on Microsoft Windows or Mac OS. So I'm just going to switch back now and complete this video on the terminal window side over in Mac OS. Now, if you've ever played this game before, you may know the secret, which is to guess halfway in between the highest and lowest value. So between one and a thousand, the halfway point is going to be 500. And in the game, it tells me whether my guess is too low or too high. In this case, it's too low. So I know I don't need to guess anything from one to 499. I need to guess somewhere between 500 and a thousand. And we always choose the halfway point as our next guess. And there's a little computer science behind that. It's basically the algorithm of a binary search for finding something in a sorted collection of values. So I'm going to guess next 750. And that's too high. So now I know I can eliminate everything from 750 up to a thousand. And now I'm focused on the values between 500 and 749. And sometimes the range doesn't divide evenly. So I'm going to divide that approximately in half. And I'm going to guess 625 next. And that's too low. So now I'm in between 625 and 750, which is a range of 125 elements. And when I divide that in half, I get about 62. So I'm actually going to guess next 687. And I'm still too high. So now I'm in the range of 625 to 687, which is a 62 element range. And I can divide that in half to get 31. So my next guess is going to be 625 plus 31. So what is that? And I'm too high. So I'm guessing in between 656 and 625. So that's a range of 31 elements. So we divide that about in half, which